CAPK demo
<Intro>
In this demo, we are showing the Kubernetes Cluster API Provider KubeVirt, also known as CAPK, which is a defined way of creating and managing a Kubernetes cluster in a KubeVirt cluster... and by KubeVirt cluster I mean a Kubernetes cluster that has KubeVirt installed on it, which I want to differentiate from the VM cluster we will create within this cluster. 

<Start>
To begin, let's have a look at our KubeVirt cluster:
We have two  nodes - one control plane and one worker node
KubeVirt is already installed. 
We can check the status of that and we see that it is deployed.

<0:18>
And we can check the various kubevirt infrastructure pods:
Everything is up and running.

<0:28>
Now to create our VM Kubernetes cluster:
Here is the definition, which we will go through quickly. 
This is based on a template that is available in the Kubevirt cluster API repo and it's a series of CRDs that define the necessary parts for the kubernetes cluster.

<0:40>
We have an object here 'KubeVirtMachineTemplate' which defines the infrastructure for our control plane VM. 
There are some simple configurations for them. 
Then the kubeadm control plane, which references our infrastructure

<0:54>
And then we have the MachineDeployment.
This is the CRD for our worker nodes, and here you can see that we have a replica count of three, which means we're creating three worker nodes.

<1:00>
We apply this YAML configuration and our resources are created.
First of all we can check to see if the kubevirt machines have been created.

And we can see that we have one control plane and three workers created.
Let's check the VMs...and we have one VM starting up.

<1:20>
Hopefully we know by now that KubeVirt puts running VMs in these virt-launcher pods. 
So this starting pod is our control plane VM starting up.

It's taking a moment to start up so let's check the reason:
Basically this is pulling a container image. 
So with KubeVirt we are using a container images to deliver the VM disk. 
This is a very handy way that we can ship VM disks with containers.

So it will take a while to pull this container image. 
But once it's present on a node it'll become very fast because KubeVirt basically creates a snapshot of this disk and replicates it for the other nodes.

So after the container image has pulled then the VM needs to boot, and it will take a minute or so to come online.

We can watch the pod until they're running... and with some pre-recorded magic jump ahead a couple of minutes in time until we have our 4 virt-launcher pods up and running.
Why 4 virt-launcher pods? Because we have 4 nodes - 1 control plane and 3 workers.

<2:06>
We can also check the VM status now and see that they are running.

As we saw earlier in the cluster definition, these VMs are all created from templates.
Let's have a look at the templates - we have one for the control plane, and we have one for the worker.

Here we are looking at the control plane template. 
It is a very simple VM: 2 cores, 4Gi RAM.
 
And now the worker node template. 
This looks identical to the control plane template but you can custom and assign different resources etc if you needed.

<2:40>
So, now that we know that the VMs are up and running, we want to access the cluster. 
With the cluster creation we also have a bunch of secrets that have been created but we are interested in only 2 of them.
The first is the SSH key so that we can SSH into the nodes.

The kvcluster-ssh-keys secret here has a private key that has been injected in every VM.
To use this, we extract the secret and put it into a file so that we can use it to access the VM.

<3:31>
Now it's saved, we give it permissions, start the ssh-agent, and add the SSH key.

The other secret that we're interested in is the cluster kubeconfig.
So we open it up and we can see the kubeconfig of the deployed cluster.
Again, we extract it and save it in a file on our local machine. 

<4:07>
Now to access the control plane. Our KubeVirt cluster has the additional virtctl client which includes additional commands to interact with VMs.
Using virtctl ssh we can specify the ssh-key in our file to access the control-plane VM for our default 'capk' user.

<4:44>
And we are now inside the control plane.

Let's inspect the containers that are running on it. And we can check what's in out home directory. 
Note there's no .kube and we're missing the kubeconfig. 
We'll need to copy that across.

<4:57>
Back to our KubeVirt cluster, and we can use the virtctl scp command to copy the kubeconfig to the control plane. 
In this demo we are only showing the control plane but this can be repeated on any of our 3 worker VM nodes. 

<5:25>
Back in the control plane VM and we can use kubectl with our kubeconfig to access our virtual cluster. 
We can see the nodes in the cluster. 
And here are the pods. 
Everything is running as expected.

<5:52>
Now let's scale this cluster.
Back to the KubeVirt cluster, and we'll look at the machine deployments. Another one of the CRDs that we created in the original cluster template. 
The machine deployment controls the number of workers in the cluster. It's a bit like replicaset in kubernetes.

<6:18>
So we started with 3 worker nodes - 3 replicas. We can edit the machinedeployment and modify the nmber of replicas from 3 to 4.
Updated successully, and just like that we have a new VM starting.

<6:33>
Checking the pods we see it is already running - this is because we previously pulled the container image for it and it is very fast to replcate that for a new VM disk.

And there we go. the 4th worker VM is up and running and our virt cluster now has 1 control plane and 4 worker nodes.

<6:41>
But don't take my word for it:Let's return to our control plane node and have a look at the nodes. 
Well.. where's my fourth worker node? 
The answer is: coming. 
While the disk is quick to create, we still need the VM to boot up and for the cluster to recognise the node.
Our time travel trick again and there's our node .
And it looks like it took around a minute between scaling the nodes and that fourth worker VM joining the cluster.



